Our text for today, First Thessalonians chapter 2 and verse 7, is part of a very warm, comforting, and encouraging letter of First Thessalonians.
It's clear from the tone and message that the Apostle Paul really loved the brothers and sisters in Thessalonica.
He was there at the founding of the congregation, and he saw the persecution that they endured with the Jews when they tried to come into the truth,
and he knew the persecution they were still going through.
He was concerned about them, and he wanted to come see them in person.
If you look at First Thessalonians chapter 2 and verse 17, he says,
but when we were separated from you brothers, for just a short time, in person, not in our hearts, because of our very strong desire, we made every effort to see you in person.
He was concerned about them, he really wanted to know how they were doing, but isn't that a nice expression that Paul uses, that while he couldn't be there in person, he was with them in his heart.
We feel the same way, today, when we're separated from our families, our congregations, our close friends.
We are with them, not in person, but we are with them in our hearts.
Since he couldn't be there in person, Paul sent Timothy, and Timothy came back with a very good report about how the brothers and sisters were doing,
and therefore then Paul writes this inspired letter of First Thessalonians to them.
Now First Thessalonians is an excellent example of a well-written and encouraging letter.
If you're looking for ideas on how to write an encouraging letter to others, First Thessalonians is a good example to study and look at.
It's a very heartfelt and meaningful letter.
If you read or listen to the whole letter, it only takes about 15 minutes.
You can easily imagine that Paul was alive today and wrote that letter to you and your congregation.
It's so warm and encouraging you may want to listen to it several times.
It feels really appropriate to the trials and challenges that we, many of us, are facing today.
Let's take a look at a few verses from First Thessalonians that can help us to endure our current trials,
and we're going to cover four basic themes.
Commendation, gentleness, friendship, and consoling.
First, let's talk about commendation.
If we look at First Thessalonians 1 and 3, so all these verses are from First Thessalonians,
verse 3, chapter 1, for we continually remember your faithful work, your loving labor, your endurance because of your hope,
in our Lord Jesus Christ, in the presence of our God and Father.
Yes, look for occasions to commend others and be as specific as possible.
One sister got a text message recently from another sister thanking her and her husband for something they had done over 10 years ago for that couple.
Well, how do you feel when you receive a well-written card, text message, or email that commend you for something that you have done,
or recall something that you did for someone?
You feel encouraged, strengthened, you feel happy.
See, commendation helps all of us to know that others see the good that we're doing and they appreciate it.
The apostle Paul described his reaction when he got the good report from Timothy about how they were doing.
He used a phrase in chapter 3 and verse 8, he said, we are revitalized.
And it's not a good way to put it that when we get commendation and we hear a good report, we're revitalized.
Now, next after commendation, let's consider our text for today, chapter 2 and verse 7.
He said, on the contrary, we became gentle in your midst as when a nursing mother tenderly cares for her own children.
Yes, gentleness.
When you get a cut on your hand and someone else wants to help you take care of it, how do you want that cut to be handled?
Gently, it hurts.
Well, emotionally, many people today are really hurt and we need to care for them gently.
Our conversations, our text messages, emails, letters, are we gentle?
With the stress and pressures of life in this old system, it can be easy to be abrupt or curt or short in our dealings with others.
When we're going to send an email, do we read it over and think for a moment before we press a send?
If you receive an email that's very strong or bit biting, are we gentle in our response, realizing that others are also feeling the emotional strain of things?
Do we take time to express our tender heart and care?
For example, we may send a card or a text message with a couple of scriptures cited and this is always appreciated.
But one sister said that what she appreciated even more was when someone sent a card and they actually wrote out the phrase in the scripture that they appreciated and said why that scripture or phrase meant something to them.
After gentleness, he mentions friendship.
Let's look at chapter 2 and verse 8.
So having tender affection for you, we were determined to impart to you not only the good news of God but also our very selves because you became so beloved to us.
Well, that expression, in part to you, our very selves is powerful.
Paul was just not their Bible teacher but he was a close friend.
All of us need close friends, especially these days.
Once that you can talk to, express your feelings to them, be confident that they're going to listen and respect your thoughts and privacy.
Paul came to really love the brothers and sisters in Thessalonica.
He did not treat them as a to-do list or checking off things or this is my job to teach them the Bible and move on.
The relationship went deeper than that.
Now, we may work together, we may be in the same congregation, we may have a meal together, but that does not automatically make us friends.
The old saying to have a friend, you have to be a friend, illustrates that being a friend really takes a lot of effort and work on our part.
Are we true friends with others? Are we taking the initiative to make close friends?
As Paul says, it really means giving of our very selves.
Now, after friendship, he mentions consoling if we look at chapter 2 and verse 11.
He says, you well know that we kept exhorting and consoling you and bearing witness to each one of you just as a father does his children.
Well, earlier, the Apostle Paul had used a mother to illustrate a gentleness.
Now, he uses a father to illustrate consoling.
We can see that the Apostle Paul really felt like he was family with the congregation there in Thessalonians and Thessalonica.
Now, life has some very sad and tragic events.
And a good father knows how to console and comfort his children when things go wrong and bad things happen.
Paul knew that the Thessalonians were actually going through a tough time, and many of them had suffered the loss of death of friends or family.
Notice his very consoling reasoning in chapter 5 of which we'll just read one verse about the hope of the resurrection.
Let's look at verse 10.
He died for us so that whether we stay awake or are asleep, we should live together with him.
Well, that's so consoling, isn't it?
Death does not break that person's relationship with Jehovah.
Alive or dead, Jehovah loves all of us.
So if we review, the inspired advice in Paul's warm and loving letter to his friends in Thessalonica can encourage all of us to command, to be gentle, to show true friendship, and console one another.
And as we head deeper into this old system, it's kind of like watching the chaos on a ship when the passengers realize that the ship is sinking.
We though, on the other hand, are in the lifeboats, and we're together.
We're trying to help one another make it through this situation until we can be rescued.
We're comforting, consoling, and helping one another and waiting to be rescued.
So to all of you, we can say the words of chapter 5 and verse 11, therefore keep encouraging one another and building one another up just as you are in fact doing.